The next topic we're going to deal
with is this concept of mutations.
And if you think about the equivalent
in the REST API mental model,
this would be put post or delete requests,
things that actually write
data into a database.
And the first thing we'll need to
do is add a mutation to our GraphQL
schema like query mutation is a top
level collection of resolvers.
And we gonna to need to create
the equivalent piece of our schemas.
So I'm just gonna copy this, and
I'll paste it into our schema.graphql.
I like to keep these up at the top because
when I'm trying to reason my way through
how things flow from, for example, before
we were dealing like with tweets and
then it goes down to sort of
tweets.author as a separate sub resolver.
I like thinking about things
in terms of top to bottom.
So let's look at the create
tweet field in this schema,
we can see that it looks sort
of like function and that is
because this is the first situation
where we are taking in variables.
You can think of these as arguments.
So looks very similar
to TypeScript syntax.
In that we have variable name and
then the type and then variable name and
then the type and this is the return type.
So what this is going to amount to
when we start using this on the client
is it's gonna be kind of like we
call a function called Create tweet.
We pass in a user ID and a body, and
we get a promise that resolves to a tweet.
As everywhere else,
as is the case everywhere else these
exclamation marks mean
this thing cannot be null.
Both in terms of the variables passed in,
they cannot be null.
And you can rely on actually
getting a tweet back, not nothing.
So there's our schema alteration.
Now we need to create a new resolver
to go along with this new type.
So let's open in our server, sub project,
the resolver's folder and
we're going to create a mutation.ts.
And there is some code on the website
that you can copy and paste, here it is.
As usual it's pasted in
let's talk about it.
All right, and
let's run our CodeGen here because we of
course changed our
change our schema a bit.
So I'm gonna run it in
the server sub project, and
yarn CodeGen, can see the green
checkmarks, that's great.
This looks like implicit any issues.
Just give it a sec,
I'm gonna just restart TypeScript server.
Let's see what happens.
Hey, that looks better all right,
and what's going on here?
That's ESLint.
Let's pump that.
A bunch of things.
Good, no errors.
So let's study what's going on here.
So first, this is the first case.
I told you it was possible,
but this is the first case
where we're actually doing it.
An async resolver, right.
We're taking advantage of the fact
that create tweet either needs to
return a tweet, or
a promise that resolves to a tweet.
And when you're dealing with mutations
where you're actually writing
something to a database, this is where
async usually is most likely to happen.
When you're getting data from a database,
sometimes that is something
that happens synchronously.
You don't necessarily have to make
sure that the entity that you
just persisted exists before moving on.
So this is where we're waiting
on something to happen.
All right, so here is parent.
We're not using that.
That's why we have
an underscore before it.
args this is the first time
we're taking in arguments and
you can see that the type of args
It has this body and user ID field.
Those are coming from here user ID and
body.
So you may think of these if
this were a function, right?
These would be local variable names.
They only have a meaning
within the function.
Here these are more like query params.
So their name is significant.
And whatever these names are thatt needs
to be consistent in your server side
code when you're plucking
these off this args object.
And in your client side code when you're
providing those variables in the query
these are the names that
you're going to use.
So name them carefully,
they have to have meaning.
And it's part of your public API where if
you change it, you might break people,.
But thankfully in this situation, you get
type errors all over the place which is.
Helpful in terms of helping you refactor.
So those are the args.
And because they're non nullable, we know
that they're both going to be a string.
Next, we use db.createtweet, which returns
a promise that resolves to a dB tweet.
So it's gonna persist it and
then it's gonna give you back
this entity that was just persisted but
this does a little bit more here.
This eslint again, yeah,
let's just ignore that.
So this creates timestamps so
that right before it's persisted,
I probably should have created one
timestamp and serialized it twice.
But you're gonna get two
dates stringified and
then an automatically generated unique ID.
So you don't have to provide those.
This is a common thing for
a database to do, right?
You don't want to feed it IDs,
it creates the IDs.
So there you go.
We'll end up with our DB
tweet after awaiting.
Next, we have a tweet map.
So we're going to reuse the same caching
object that we can put these entities
from the database in So that
downstream resolvers can do their job.
In this case, remember, tweets have
authors and even after we persist
this thing in order to return it,
that tweet dot author resolver,
that's this one here,
this is still going to be cold.
And so
we need to make sure that dbTweetCache and
dbUserCache have the right things in them.
Now, thankfully, we'll know when we pull
out what we hope is cached in there,
we will get a nice error in
the event that something's missing.
And by the way, If we remove this,
note that we have DB user or undefined.
So we're using a recent compiler
option here called no unchecked index,
access to TypeScript
compiler option that says.
Whenever we use, like square bracket
notation, the type of the thing
that comes back always has
the possibility of being undefined.
Because this we're hoping something's
in there if we did our jobs,
something's in there.
But we're obligated to make sure
that what we got back is truthy,
before we go and continue to use it.
So that's part of
the reason I'm doing this.
And it's exactly what you would want
if you're using this as a cache, right?
It would give you that great feedback.
And in this situation, you could
also fall back and say, all right,
nothing is in the cache.
Let's actually hit the DB and
let's get this thing, and
at least we can get the data, right?
Cool, so
we're going to populate the Tweet map.
And we're going to transform the tweet and
we're going to return it.
It seems good.
I actually noticed that we
have a little bug in here.
Now we could complete this exercise,
even with this bug, but I'm gonna fix it.
And that is we didn't put the author
in the author cache here.
And I think we would get around this
cuz we're not actually returning.
Like when we're making this query,
we're not getting the author back.
That wouldn't be too bad though,
we could say,
object.assign, tweet transform
And, We'll put in author.
You don't have to do this
I'm just doing it for.
For completeness sake, so
we've already got the user ID up here
right this is something that
we were given as an argument.
If the author is not found because
we're getting by user ID and
that could, is that already guard us here.
Looks like it's pretty confidently
returning us an author.
We should do it anyway.
And we'll make a nice
little error message here.
Again, don't feel pressured
to copy this down, but
I'm just sort of, Improving it on the fly.
And then here we would say transform For
our user transform, do we have this?
I guess we can just pass in the DB author
here because it doesn't need to be
transformed.
Yet don't need that await all right.
So now we can be assured that the author
will be populated in this case.
And that means that
user.author this resolver here,
well sorry we never had one here.
Tweet.author, tweet.author will never be
called because when the tweet comes back
after that first resolver will already
have this thing in place it will already
work and we should be good to go.
All right so one more thing we have
to do what you didn't do before,
mutations we need to hook it up in
our big collection of many resolvers.
And we'll just follow
the pattern up here right so
all the resolvers are sort
of joined together.
And I think we should be good to go
there's no we could try to create a tweet.
I'm tempting fate a little bit here.
Just want to make sure my database
has no changes in it, great.
So if we screw things up and we put
a value in there that's not reasonable we
can always revert that JSON file and
get into a good state.
So let's try to do this using
the dev tools just because it's good
to know how to do this in case
you have to in the real world.
So we've got at the top
level route types we
have a mutation, we have create tweet.
Note on the bottom there's this new
little area that just became useful.
It's got user ID and it's got body.
So we gonna need a real user ID and
we could get that with GraphQL actually,
if we get rid of this, let's make a query
and just get the current user ID.
Boom, query, awesome, there is a string.
So let's paste that down here for user ID.
And then say, first tweet.
All right, and now let's go back and
let's create that mutation query.
Here we go, create tweet.
And what do we want back?
Let's just get the ID back, boom.
All right we got a tweet ID back and
let's see what happened in our
database there's db.json and
there it is So that's us testing our
first mutation the creation of a tweet